DEPLOYMENT_RENDER.md, before:

# Deployment Guide: FarmLink AI on Render

This guide will help you deploy the complete FarmLink AI application on Render with both the Node.js backend and Python AI service.

## Prerequisites

1. A [Render](https://render.com) account
2. A [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas) account
3. A [Twilio](https://www.twilio.com) account
4. This repository code

## Step 1: Prepare Your Repository

1. Commit all your changes to Git:
```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Prepare for Render deployment"
```

2. Push your code to GitHub:
```bash
git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/farmlink-ai.git
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main
```

## Step 2: Set Up MongoDB Atlas

1. Create a MongoDB Atlas account if you don't have one
2. Create a new cluster
3. Create a database user with read/write permissions
4. Add your IP address to the IP whitelist (or use 0.0.0.0/0 for testing)
5. Get your connection string:
   - Click "Connect" -> "Connect your application"
   - Copy the connection string and replace `<password>` with your actual password

## Step 3: Deploy the Python AI Service

1. Go to [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com)
2. Click "New+" -> "Web Service"
3. Connect your GitHub repository
4. Fill in the form:
   - **Name**: `farmlink-ai-ai-service`
   - **Environment**: Python 3
   - **Build Command**: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
   - **Start Command**: `python app.py`
   - **Root Directory**: `ai-service`
5. Click "Advanced" and add environment variables:
   - `PYTHON_VERSION`: `3.8.11` (or higher)
6. Click "Create Web Service"

## Step 4: Deploy the Node.js Backend

1. Go back to [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com)
2. Click "New+" -> "Web Service"
3. Connect the same GitHub repository
4. Fill in the form:
   - **Name**: `farmlink-ai-backend`
   - **Environment**: Node
   - **Build Command**: `npm install`
   - **Start Command**: `node server.js`
   - **Root Directory**: Leave empty (root of repository)
5. Click "Advanced" and add environment variables:

| Key | Value |
|-----|-------|
| `MONGODB_URI` | Your MongoDB Atlas connection string |
| `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID` | Your Twilio Account SID |
| `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN` | Your Twilio Auth Token |
| `TWILIO_WHATSAPP_NUMBER` | Your Twilio WhatsApp number (e.g., `whatsapp:+14155238886`) |
| `TWILIO_PHONE_NUMBER` | Your Twilio phone number |
| `AI_SERVICE_URL` | URL of your deployed AI service (will get after deploying AI service) |
| `JWT_SECRET` | A random string for JWT token signing |
| `PORT` | `10000` |

6. Click "Create Web Service"

## Step 5: Update AI Service URL

1. After the AI service is deployed, copy its URL from the Render dashboard
2. Go to your Node.js service settings on Render
3. Update the `AI_SERVICE_URL` environment variable with the AI service URL
4. Click "Save Changes" to redeploy

## Step 6: Configure Twilio Webhook

1. Go to your [Twilio Console](https://console.twilio.com)
2. Navigate to Programmable WhatsApp -> Senders
3. Click on your WhatsApp sandbox number
4. In the "Webhook URLs" section, set:
   - **WHEN A MESSAGE COMES IN**: `https://YOUR-BACKEND-URL.onrender.com/api/whatsapp` (POST)
5. Save the configuration

## Step 7: Create Initial Admin User

1. After deployment is complete, create your admin user:
```bash
curl -X POST https://YOUR-BACKEND-URL.onrender.com/api/auth/create-admin \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "username": "nihan9t9",
    "password": "1234",
    "name": "Admin User",
    "email": "admin@example.com"
  }'
```

## Environment Variables Reference

### Required for Node.js Backend:
- `MONGODB_URI`: MongoDB Atlas connection string
- `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`: Twilio Account SID
- `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN`: Twilio Auth Token
- `TWILIO_WHATSAPP_NUMBER`: WhatsApp number with `whatsapp:` prefix
- `TWILIO_PHONE_NUMBER`: Twilio phone number
- `AI_SERVICE_URL`: URL of the deployed Python AI service
- `JWT_SECRET`: Secret key for JWT tokens
- `PORT`: Port to run on (default: 10000)

### Required for Python AI Service:
- `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`: (Optional) For downloading Twilio media
- `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN`: (Optional) For downloading Twilio media

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues:

1. **MongoDB Connection Failed**:
   - Verify your MongoDB URI
   - Check IP whitelist in MongoDB Atlas
   - Ensure database user credentials are correct

2. **Twilio Webhook Not Working**:
   - Verify webhook URL is correct and publicly accessible
   - Check Twilio console for error messages
   - Ensure the endpoint returns HTTP 200

3. **AI Service Connection Failed**:
   - Verify `AI_SERVICE_URL` is correct
   - Check that the AI service is running
   - Ensure no firewall issues between services

4. **Environment Variables Not Set**:
   - Check all required environment variables are set in Render
   - Redeploy after making changes to environment variables

### Checking Logs:

1. Go to your service in Render Dashboard
2. Click "Logs" tab
3. Check for any error messages
4. Look for the green "✅" success messages

## Health Check Endpoints

- **Backend Health**: `https://YOUR-BACKEND-URL.onrender.com/api/health`
- **AI Service Health**: `https://YOUR-AI-SERVICE-URL.onrender.com/health`

## Updating Your Application

To update your deployed application:

1. Push changes to your GitHub repository
2. Go to your service in Render Dashboard
3. Click "Manual Deploy" -> "Deploy latest commit"
4. Or enable auto-deploy for automatic deployments on push

## Scaling Considerations

For production use:

1. Upgrade from free tier to paid plans on Render
2. Use a production MongoDB cluster instead of free tier
3. Add monitoring and alerting
4. Implement proper logging
5. Consider using a CDN for static assets

## Support

If you encounter issues:

1. Check the logs in Render Dashboard
2. Verify all environment variables are set correctly
3. Ensure your MongoDB Atlas cluster is accessible
4. Confirm Twilio webhook is properly configured

Commit message:

Update deployment guide with Render-specific configurations and fixes

DEPLOYMENT_RENDER.md, after:

# Deployment Guide: FarmLink AI on Render

This guide will help you deploy the complete FarmLink AI application on Render with both the Node.js backend and Python AI service.

## Prerequisites

1. A [Render](https://render.com) account
2. A [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas) account
3. A [Twilio](https://www.twilio.com) account
4. This repository code

## Step 1: Prepare Your Repository

1. Commit all your changes to Git:
```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Prepare for Render deployment"
```

2. Push your code to GitHub:
```bash
git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/farmlink-ai.git
git branch -M master
git push -u origin master
```

## Step 2: Set Up MongoDB Atlas

1. Create a MongoDB Atlas account if you don't have one
2. Create a new cluster
3. Create a database user with read/write permissions
4. Add your IP address to the IP whitelist (or use 0.0.0.0/0 for testing)
5. Get your connection string:
   - Click "Connect" -> "Connect your application"
   - Copy the connection string and replace `<password>` with your actual password

## Step 3: Deploy the Python AI Service

1. Go to [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com)
2. Click "New+" -> "Web Service"
3. Connect your GitHub repository
4. Fill in the form:
   - **Name**: `farmlink-ai-ai-service`
   - **Environment**: Python 3
   - **Build Command**: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
   - **Start Command**: `gunicorn -w 1 -b 0.0.0.0:$PORT render:app`
   - **Root Directory**: `ai-service`
5. Click "Advanced" and add environment variables:
   - `PYTHON_VERSION`: `3.8.11` (or higher)
6. Click "Create Web Service"

## Step 4: Deploy the Node.js Backend

1. Go back to [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com)
2. Click "New+" -> "Web Service"
3. Connect the same GitHub repository
4. Fill in the form:
   - **Name**: `farmlink-ai-backend`
   - **Environment**: Node
   - **Build Command**: `npm install`
   - **Start Command**: `node server.js`
   - **Root Directory**: Leave empty (root of repository)
5. Click "Advanced" and add environment variables:

| Key | Value |
|-----|-------|
| `MONGODB_URI` | Your MongoDB Atlas connection string |
| `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID` | Your Twilio Account SID |
| `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN` | Your Twilio Auth Token |
| `TWILIO_WHATSAPP_NUMBER` | Your Twilio WhatsApp number (e.g., `whatsapp:+14155238886`) |
| `TWILIO_PHONE_NUMBER` | Your Twilio phone number |
| `AI_SERVICE_URL` | URL of your deployed Python AI service (will get after deploying AI service) |
| `JWT_SECRET` | A random string for JWT token signing |
| `PORT` | `10000`

6. Click "Create Web Service"

## Step 5: Update AI Service URL

1. After the AI service is deployed, copy its URL from the Render dashboard
2. Go to your Node.js service settings on Render
3. Update the `AI_SERVICE_URL` environment variable with the AI service URL
4. Click "Save Changes" to redeploy

## Step 6: Configure Twilio Webhook

1. Go to your [Twilio Console](https://console.twilio.com)
2. Navigate to Programmable WhatsApp -> Senders
3. Click on your WhatsApp sandbox number
4. In the "Webhook URLs" section, set:
   - **WHEN A MESSAGE COMES IN**: `https://YOUR-BACKEND-URL.onrender.com/api/whatsapp` (POST)
5. Save the configuration

## Step 7: Create Initial Admin User

1. After deployment is complete, create your admin user:
```bash
curl -X POST https://YOUR-BACKEND-URL.onrender.com/api/auth/create-admin \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "username": "nihan9t9",
    "password": "1234",
    "name": "Admin User",
    "email": "admin@example.com"
  }'
```

## Environment Variables Reference

### Required for Node.js Backend:
- `MONGODB_URI`: MongoDB Atlas connection string
- `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`: Twilio Account SID
- `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN`: Twilio Auth Token
- `TWILIO_WHATSAPP_NUMBER`: WhatsApp number with `whatsapp:` prefix
- `TWILIO_PHONE_NUMBER`: Twilio phone number
- `AI_SERVICE_URL`: URL of the deployed Python AI service
- `JWT_SECRET`: Secret key for JWT tokens
- `PORT`: Port to run on (default: 3001 for local, Render sets automatically)

### Required for Python AI Service:
- `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`: (Optional) For downloading Twilio media
- `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN`: (Optional) For downloading Twilio media
- `PORT`: (Set automatically by Render)

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues:

1. **MongoDB Connection Failed**:
   - Verify your MongoDB URI
   - Check IP whitelist in MongoDB Atlas
   - Ensure database user credentials are correct

2. **Twilio Webhook Not Working**:
   - Verify webhook URL is correct and publicly accessible
   - Check Twilio console for error messages
   - Ensure the endpoint returns HTTP 200

3. **AI Service Connection Failed**:
   - Verify `AI_SERVICE_URL` is correct
   - Check that the AI service is running
   - Ensure no firewall issues between services

4. **Environment Variables Not Set**:
   - Check all required environment variables are set in Render
   - Redeploy after making changes to environment variables

5. **Port Configuration Issues**:
   - The application now correctly uses `process.env.PORT` for Render compatibility
   - Node.js default port is 3001 for local development
   - Python AI service default port is 5000 for local development

### Checking Logs:

1. Go to your service in Render Dashboard
2. Click "Logs" tab
3. Check for any error messages
4. Look for the green "✅" success messages

## Health Check Endpoints

- **Backend Health**: `https://YOUR-BACKEND-URL.onrender.com/api/health`
- **AI Service Health**: `https://YOUR-AI-SERVICE-URL.onrender.com/health`

## Updating Your Application

To update your deployed application:

1. Push changes to your GitHub repository
2. Go to your service in Render Dashboard
3. Click "Manual Deploy" -> "Deploy latest commit"
4. Or enable auto-deploy for automatic deployments on push

## Scaling Considerations

For production use:

1. Upgrade from free tier to paid plans on Render
2. Use a production MongoDB cluster instead of free tier
3. Add monitoring and alerting
4. Implement proper logging
5. Consider using a CDN for static assets

## Support

If you encounter issues:

1. Check the logs in Render Dashboard
2. Verify all environment variables are set correctly
3. Ensure your MongoDB Atlas cluster is accessible
4. Confirm Twilio webhook is properly configured
